# Archiver Appliance documentation

This is an implementation of an archiver for
[EPICS](http://www.aps.anl.gov/epics/index.php) control systems that
aims to archive millions of PVs.

Here are the main features.

- Ability to cluster appliances and to scale by adding appliances to
  the cluster.
  - Limited support for [redundancy](sysadmin/explanations/redundancy).
  - Ability to dynamically [re-assign](sysadmin/guides/reassign) PVs to appliances.
- Multiple stages and an inbuilt process to move data between the
  stages.
  - This supports the ability to use faster storage (which is
    perhaps limited in size) to improve performance.
  - Ability to reduce (decimate) the data as it moves into a store.
- Focus on data retrieval performance.
- A management interface giving you the ability to manage and monitor
  the system using a browser. This includes
  1. The ability to add PVs to a cluster of appliances using a
     browser (perhaps by users).
  2. Various metrics to help with capacity planning.
  3. Ability to define system-wide defaults for archiving parameters
     using policies.
- Ability to script the business processes in the appliances using an
  external process in a language like
  [Python](http://www.python.org/).
- Ability to configure various archiving parameters on a per PV basis.
- Ability to customize the appliance to suit a different set of
  requirements. This includes
  - The ability to use alternate storage technologies that may
    better suit your needs or perform better in your environment.
  - The ability to define your own data reduction algorithms and to
    optionally cache data generated by these algorithms on a per PV
    basis.
  - Simple ways to add support for new MIME types in data retrieval
    responses.
- Support for EPICS aliases.
- Support for EPICS 7/PVAccess/Structured data.
- Support for retrieval of data using [CS-Studio](operator/guides/cstudio), the
  [ArchiveViewer](operator/guides/archiveviewer) and Matlab.
- Limited integration with existing Channel Archiver data sources.

## Motivation

Archiving millions of PVs requires a few additional features beyond a
simple archiver. In addition to focusing on the EPICS side of the
equation, we also need to address the various IT aspects like
flexibility, scriptability, and policy enforcement. An integrated
multi-head, multi-stage solution was called for; hence the appliance.

## EPICS 7

The archiver appliance has built in support for EPICS 7 and archiving
PVs over PVAccess. NTScalars and NTScalarArrays are stored as their
channel access counterparts. For example, `PVDouble`s will be stored
as `DBR_SCALAR_DOUBLE`s. This makes it possible to use standard
archive viewers to view NTScalars and NTScalarArrays archived thru
PVAccess. Other PVData types are stored as a bunch of bits using
PVAccess serialization. While this is probably not the most efficient,
it does allow for archiving of arbitrary structured data. There is
support for retrieving of structured data using the `RAW` and `JSON`
formats.

Last published on {sub-ref}`today`. This project is part of the
[AccelUtils](http://accelutils.sourceforge.net/) collaboration.

```{toctree}
:caption: Operator documentation
:maxdepth: 3
:glob:

operator/tutorials/index
operator/guides/index
operator/explanations/index
operator/references/index
```

```{toctree}
:caption: Integrator documentation
:maxdepth: 3
:glob:

integrator/tutorials/index
integrator/guides/index
integrator/explanations/index
integrator/references/index
```

```{toctree}
:caption: System admin documentation
:maxdepth: 3
:glob:

sysadmin/tutorials/index
sysadmin/guides/index
sysadmin/explanations/index
sysadmin/references/index
```

```{toctree}
:caption: Developer documentation
:maxdepth: 3
:glob:

developer/tutorials/index
developer/guides/index
developer/explanations/index
developer/references/index
```

```{toctree}
:caption: Contributor documentation
:maxdepth: 3
:glob:

contributor/tutorials/index
contributor/guides/index
contributor/explanations/index
contributor/references/index
```
