# Customization

It is unlikely that the features of the archiver appliance match your
requirements exactly over a period of time. Here are some of the
existing ways that you can customize the archiver appliance (without
forking from the existing source tree).

If you identify other ways in which we can allow for customization of
the archiver appliance to suit your needs, please let the collaboration
know and we\'ll try to accommodate.

## Site specific builds

The archiver appliance offers you the ability to customize the WAR files
generated by the build in these ways.

:::{note}
Han maintains a set of scripts for [site specific installs](https://github.com/jeonghanlee/epicsarchiverap-sites). This is
an excellent starting off point for folks who wish to build their own
deployment bundles. This is tested against CentOS; but should be easily
extensible for other distributions.
:::

1. The `src/sitespecific` folder contains materials specific to your
    site. You can use the environment variable `ARCHAPPL_SITEID` to
    control which set of sitespecific files are included in the
    generated WARS.

    1. When you set this environment variable, you should see a message
        `Building the archiver appliance for the site`{.sample}`YourSite`{.variable}
    2. If this variable is not set, by default, we use the material in
        the `tests` site.
    3. The quickstart package `archappl_vx.x.x.tar.gz` available in the
        Downloads is also built to the `tests` site.
    4. The files in the
        `src/sitespecific/`*`YourSite`*`/classpathfiles` are added to
        the `WEB-INF/classes` of the generated WAR files and should be
        accessible in the code using
        `servletContext.getResourceAsStream("/WEB-INF/classes/<<fileName>>")`
    5. If you do not set the `ARCHAPPL_POLICIES` environment variable,
        the `policies.py` for your site is discovered this way
        1. You can generate WAR with `policies.py` specific to your
            site by setting the `ARCHAPPL_SITEID`.
        2. Or you can unpack the WAR files within the container and
            override the default `policies.py` with your own during
            deployment.
    6. If you do not set the `ARCHAPPL_APPLIANCES` environment
        variable, the `appliances.xml` is discovered in a similar
        fashion.
    7. There is also a site specific properties file called
        `archappl.properties` that is discovered in a similar fashion.
        The properties in this file are used to control some of the
        other customizations of the archiver appliance.

    ``` bash
    $ ls -ltr src/sitespecific/
    total 0
    drwxr-xr-x 3 mshankar cd 28 Jun 21 10:40 tests
    drwxr-xr-x 3 mshankar cd 45 Sep  9 16:03 slacdev
    $ export ARCHAPPL_SITEID=slacdev
    $ gradle

    > Configure project :
    [ant:echo] Building the archiver appliance for the site slacdev
    ```

2. The archiver appliance uses [gradle](http://gradle.org) for its
    builds, and [Apache Ant](http://ant.apache.org/) for site specific
    build steps. As part of the gradle build process, you have the
    opportunity to call an ant script that is as part of the
    `src/sitespecific` folder. The `build.xml` in the `src/sitespecific`
    is called (if it exists) after the compile and staging tasks and
    before the WAR is packed. This lets you replace default collateral
    (like images, phone numbers in messages etc) with your own
    collateral in the generated WAR file(s).

3. For simple site specific content changes like replacing the images
    or the contact text in the home page, please see [this document](site_specific).

## Policies

As outlined in the [details](../developer/details) page, the archiver appliance
support a wide variety of configurations. Not only that, we also support
configuration on a per PV basis. We avoid exposing all of this
complexity to the end user (the one who is requesting PVs to be
archived) by using policies to provide intelligent defaults. Policies
are contained in a python/jython script called `policies.py` that is
typically located in the `WEB-INF/classes` of the `mgmt` webapp or by
using the environment variable `ARCHAPPL_POLICIES`.

At a very high level, when users request PVs to be archived, the mgmt &
engine webapps sample the PV to determine event rate, storage rate and
other parameters. In addition, various fields of the PV like `.NAME`,
`.ADEL`, `.MDEL`, `.RTYP` etc are also determined. All of these
parameters are passed to the `policies.py` python script as a dictionary
argument to a method in `policies.py` called `determinePolicy`; see the
[javadoc](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/mgmt/policy/ExecutePolicy.html)
for more details. This method is expected to use all of this information
to make decisions on various archiving parameters including storage
locations, storage technologies used etc and return these decisions as
another dictionary. For example, the resulting dictionary contains a
field called `dataStores` which is an array of
[StoragePlugin](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/StoragePlugin.html)
URL\'s that can be parsed by the
[StoragePluginURLParser](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/config/StoragePluginURLParser.html).
This is converted into a sequence of StoragePlugin\'s that is used like
so

1. The engine webapp writes data into the first StoragePlugin in the
    sequence, i.e. `dataStores[0]`
2. The ETL webapp schedules data transfers from one StoragePlugin to
    the next in the sequence according to their
    [PartitionGranularity](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/common/PartitionGranularity.html)\'s
3. When servicing a data retrieval request, the retrieval webapp
    retrieves data from all of the datastores and then combines them
    using a merge/dedup operator.

Optionally, as part of a policy, we can also archive fields in addition
to the VAL field. That is, one can establish a blanket policy that says
something like *For all `ai's`, in addition to the `.VAL` field, also
archive the `.HIHI, .LOLO` etc* These fields are stored as part of the
data for .VAL field.

For more details and an example of a policy file, please look at the
`src/sitespecific/tests/policies.py` that is shipped as part of the
`tests` site. In addition to the `determinePolicy` method, there are a
few more methods that need to be defined. These include

1. `getPolicyList` \-- This returns a list of available policy names.
2. `getFieldsArchivedAsPartOfStream` \-- This returns a list of fields
    that are to be archived as part of the stream.

## Site specific properties

There is a site specific properties file called `archappl.properties`
that is typically present in `WEB-INF/classes` of all the webapps or as
the environment variable `ARCHAPPL_PROPERTIES_FILENAME`. This contains
various configuration elements that are common to all machines in the
cluster and probably common to all deployments of the archiver appliance
in your infrastructure. One of the advantages of having your site
specific properties checked into the source repository is that as the
system evolves and we add new configuration elements, default values for
these new configuration elements can be added to `archappl.properties`
of all the sites. The configuration elements present here are
configuration decisions that are made during the initial scoping of your
archiving project; so, please do look at these configuration elements
and make choices appropriate to your installation.

## Key Mapping

The archiver appliance stores data in chunks that have a well defined
key. The key is based on

1. The PV Name
2. The time partition of the chunk

For example, using the
[default](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/config/ConvertPVNameToKey.html)
key mapping strategy, data for the PV `EIOC:LI30:MP01:HEARTBEAT` for the
timeframe `2012-08-24T16:xx:xx.xxxZ` on an hourly partition is stored
under the key `EIOC/LI30/MP01/HEARTBEAT:2012_08_24_16.pb`. Data for the
same PV in a daily partition is stored under the key
`EIOC/LI30/MP01/HEARTBEAT:2012_08_24.pb` for the day
`2012-08-24Txx:xx:xx.xxxZ`.

To use the
[default](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/config/ConvertPVNameToKey.html)
key mapping strategy, it is important (for performance reasons) that the
PV names follow a good naming convention that distributes the chunks
into many folders - see the
[Javadoc](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/config/ConvertPVNameToKey.html)
for more details. If the *key/file structure reflecting the PV naming
convention* feature is not important to you, you can choose to use an
alternate key mapping strategy by implementing the
[PVNameToKeyMapping](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/config/PVNameToKeyMapping.html)
interface and setting this
[property](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/config/DefaultConfigService.html#ARCHAPPL_PVNAME_TO_KEY_MAPPING_CLASSNAME)
to name of the implementing class.

## Persistence

By default, the configuration for each appliance is stored in a
relational database (using connections obtained from JNDI) as key/value
pairs. The install guide has instructions on how to set up a MySQL
connection pool in tomcat. For smaller installs with minimal concurrent
access, one can also configure Tomcat to use a [SQLite](sqlite)
backend.\
Alternate mechanisms for persisting archiver configuration are possible;
see the
[ConfigPersistence](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/config/ConfigPersistence.html)
interface. To save your configuration in a different location, create an
implementation of this interface and use the
[ARCHAPPL_PERSISTENCE_LAYER](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/config/ConfigService.html#ARCHAPPL_PERSISTENCE_LAYER)
environment in your startup scripts.

## Storage Plugins

The starting point for using an alternate storage technology is to
create implementations of the
[StoragePlugin](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/StoragePlugin.html)
interface and register them in
[StoragePluginURLParser](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/config/StoragePluginURLParser.html).
In addition to the StoragePlugin interface, additional optional
interfaces facilitate additional functionality

1. [ETLSource](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/etl/ETLSource.html) \--
    The lets a StoragePlugin act as a source of data in the ETL process.
2. [ETLDest](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/etl/ETLDest.html) \-- The
    lets a StoragePlugin act as a destination of data in the ETL
    process.
3. [StorageMetrics](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/etl/StorageMetrics.html)
    \-- The lets a StoragePlugin provide metrics that are displayed in
    the UI and participate in capacity planning.

Writing a new StoragePlugin does take some effort but with this
separation, you should be able to support a wide variety of storage
technologies. For more details, please see the Javadoc.

## NIO2

The
[PlainPBStoragePlugin](../_static/javadoc/edu/stanford/slac/archiverappliance/PlainPB/PlainPBStoragePlugin.html){.external} 
can be viewed as a chunking
[StoragePlugin](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/StoragePlugin.html){.external}. It
chunks data into `Time instant t ↔ Chunk key`,
well-defined time-partitions (instead of individual samples) and various
business processes in the archiver appliance understand these
time-partitions and deal with them efficiently. Each chunk has a well
defined [key](#key-mapping) and one can choose to store a chunk in any
storage provider that provides block storage. The PlainPBStoragePlugin
uses Java
[NIO2](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/nio/file/package-summary.html)
as the storage API. Java NIO2 has a [documented
mechanism](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/io/fsp/filesystemprovider.html)
for developing custom file system providers. Using custom NIO2 file
system providers, one can store the chunks generated by the
PlainPBStoragePlugin using storage technologies like

1. Database BLOBS
2. Any key/value store (for example, SciDB)
3. Other technologies that may be more appropriate

To add custom NIO2 file system providers for use in the archiver
appliance, please look at the JavaDoc for our version of Java\'s
[Paths](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/utils/nio/ArchPaths.html).

## Type systems

The archiver appliance uses Google\'s
[ProtocolBuffers](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers) as the
serialization scheme. There are plenty of other algorithms that offer
the same functionality, of great interest is the serialization scheme
used in the [EPICS V4 protocol](http://epics-pvdata.sourceforge.net/pvAccess_Protocol_Specification.html).
Support for alternate serialization mechanisms is possible by adding
support for [alternate type systems](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/config/TypeSystem.html). Please
contact the collaboration if you\'d want to consider using alternate
serialization mechanisms.

## ConfigService

All of the configuration in the archiver appliance is handled thru
implementations of the
[ConfigService](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/config/ConfigService.html)
interface. Each webapp has one instance of this interface and this
instance is dependency injected into the classes that need it. If all
else fails, you can create your implementation of the ConfigService and
register it in the servlet context
[listener](../_static/javadoc/org/epics/archiverappliance/config/ArchServletContextListener.html).
